update search code sample in SDK (#284)
kuzzleio/documentation: src/sdk-reference/js/6/extend-sdk/index.md

---
layout: sdk.html.hbs
title: Extends the SDK

> description: Extends the SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Extend the SDK
```

order: 410
---

> # Extends the SDK with a custom SDK controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Extend the SDK with a custom SDK controller
```

> It is possible to extend the SDK's functionality by adding new controllers.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to extend the SDK's API by adding new controllers.  
```

(or "features" maybe, but I think that "API" is clearer)

> These controllers generally correspond to [custom controllers created in a plugin]({{ site_base_path }}plugins/1/essentials/controllers) but not necessarily. Thus, it is possible to use the actions of its plugin in the SDK in the same way as the other actions of the Kuzzle API.  

Reviewer: I don't understand the sentence starting with "Thus..."
What do you mean exactly?

As a side note, I think that matching an API extension made by a plugin is the main usage for that class, and I think that this is how this should be documented.

Reviewer 2: I mean that you can use your plugin custom action in the same way as core API actions. (eg: `kuzzle.myController.myAction()`)

Reviewer: I find your new version clearer :+1:

## Define a custom SDK controller

> A custom SDK controller is a class inheriting from the [BaseController]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/base-controller) class and defining methods that correspond to API actions.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom SDK controller is a class inheriting from the [BaseController]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/base-controller) class and defining methods matching Kuzzle API actions.  
```

> This class is exposed alongside the other class of the SDK module.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class is exposed alongside the other classes of the SDK module.  
```

Also, I'm not sure about the exact meaning of that sentence. Though if I interpret it correctly, then you may want to replace it with something like that: `After it has been added using Kuzzle.use<link>, a custom controller can be accessed like any other SDK controllers`.

Reviewer 2: I mean that the `BaseController` class is exposed like the `Kuzzle` or `WebSocket` class when you do a `require('kuzzle-sdk')`)

> This controller can then be added to the SDK with the [Kuzzle.useController]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/kuzzle/use-controller) method.

Reviewer: Well... it must be added _before_ it is "exposed", so this sentence should come before the previous one (or it can be removed if you use one of my proposals above, it's your call)

## Constructor

> The constructor of a custom controller will be called by passing the SDK instance to it. It must call the parent constructor with this instance of the SDK and its name as defined in the API.  

Reviewer: I don't understand that first sentence. What does that mean "passing the SDK instance to it"? How can I do this before invoking the constructor?

Reviewer 2: The `useController` method will call the controller constructor with the SDK instance like this: `new Controller(this)`.

> So if my plugin is named `nyc-open-data-taxi` (name defined in the [manifest.json]({{ site_base_path }}plugins/1/essentials/getting-started/#prerequisites) file) and I have extended the API with the following controller:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, if there is a plugin named `nyc-open-data-taxi`, extending Kuzzle's API with the following controller:
```

```javascript
this.controllers = {
  taxi: {
    startDuty: request => this.startDuty(request)
  }
}
```

> Then the constructor of the custom SDK controller must specify its name as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the constructor of the custom SDK controller must specify its name as follows (see [how to query a custom API route]({{ site_base_path }}plugins/1/essentials/controllers/#querying-plugins-controllers) documentation):
```

```javascript
const { BaseController } = require('kuzzle-sdk');

class TaxiController extends BaseController {
  constructor (kuzzle) {
    super(kuzzle, 'nyc-open-data-plugin/taxi');
  }
}
```

The controller name will then be injected into the requests sent with the [BaseController.query]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/base-controller/query) method.

> ## Define custom SDK controller action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define custom SDK controller actions
```

Each action of your custom SDK controller is a method of the class.  

> These methods can use the [BaseController.query]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/base-controller/query) method which only overloads [Kuzzle.query]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/kuzzle/query) by injecting the name of the custom SDK controller.  

Reviewer: "can" or "have to"?

Also, I think that this should be simplified (what BaseController.query does is already documented):

```suggestion
These methods have to use the [BaseController.query]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/base-controller/query) method to invoke an API action.
```

> Keeping the previous example in mind, we have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extending the previous example, we now have:
```

```javascript
const { BaseController } = require('kuzzle-sdk');

class TaxiController extends BaseController {
  constructor (kuzzle) {
    super(kuzzle, 'nyc-open-data-plugin/taxi');
  }

  startDuty (driver) {
    const apiRequest = {
      action: 'startDuty',
      body: {
        driver
      }
    };

    return this.query(apiRequest)
      .then(response => response.result);
  }
}
```

> ## Add custom SDK controller to the SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add a custom SDK controller to the SDK
```

Once you have defined your custom SDK controller, you can add it to the SDK with the [Kuzzle.useController]({{ site_base_path }}sdk-reference/js/6/kuzzle/use-controller) method.  

> This method takes as parameter the class of your controller and the name of the accessor under which it will be available in the SDK.  

Reviewer: You don't have to document useController again:

```suggestion
```

You can then use the actions of your plugins in the same way as the rest of the Kuzzle API by taking advantage of authentication, offline mode management, etc.  

```javascript
const 
  TaxiController = require('./taxiController'),
  { Kuzzle, WebSocket } = require('kuzzle-sdk');

const kuzzle = new Kuzzle(new WebSocket('localhost'));

kuzzle.useController(TaxiController, 'taxi');

> await kuzzle.taxi.startDuty('lia meh ry');

Reviewer: missing kuzzle.connect
